Welcome back.
Hopefully that wasn't too bad.
Keep in mind that when it comes to interviewing interviewers want you to know that you understand the
concepts.
You won't necessarily have to code a binary search sheaf from scratch.
Most of the time at least because in real life you have things like this library that somebody else
created that allows you to use Treach reversal and manipulation techniques because this has already
been done before and you can see by using a library like this that you can just use it and create the
tree that you want.
Most likely you're not going to implement it from scratch by yourself but we do want to understand the
fundamentals and how it works.
So if this was challenging to you.
Don't get frustrated.
This doesn't make you a bad engineer or a bad coder.
You're just working towards building those fundamentals so that you can use tools like this in the future
and still understand how they work.
But enough talk.
Let's get to the answer.
I want to create a tree that looks something like this.
So the first thing I'm going to do is work on the insert function.
Now within this entire function the very first thing I want to do is to say well we want to create the
new node
and we'll say new node will be the value.
So we're just creating a new low class instantiating it with the value.
And that's our new no now.
So we have a reference to it.
The first thing we want to check.
Well if the tree is empty and there's no Rudin node Well we should add this as our root node.
So I'm going to say this dot root equals no.
If that's the case then simply make the root node our current node that we inserted.
Nice and easy and just to check that this is working.
If I comment all of this out and click run.
There you go.
Our root node has a value of 9 left as nil right is no because it's the only note and by the way to
show you how this string works it's really really useful because if I copy this and just point out here
that I'm not copying the quotation marks which makes it a string.
And if I open up developer tools
and Google Chrome and I go to my console tab I can copy and paste this.
Press enter and now I have access to this tree and it's a lot easier for me to view.
And once we insert other nodes you'll see that it's very easy to traverse this tree this way and check
your work.
Which is why I added this function so we'll come back to that.
For now we see that our insert is working Olly's for if the root node is no but let's continue.
If that's not the case we'll say.
Else if the root node is already filled will say that the current node will be the star route because
we're going to have to traverse this note and we won't know how long we're going to traverse the snowfall.
We want to keep traversing until we find a place to insert this.
And this is a bit tricky but something you'll get used to when you're building trees.
We want to use a while loop and the condition we're going to use is true.
That means just keep looping every time because true is always going to equal.
True and we have to be careful here if we do this we want to make sure that there is a way for us to
exit out of this loop.
Otherwise we're going to have an infinite loop and will crash our little page here.
So what are the conditions that we're going to loop through.
We want to traverse through the tree Well the first check we're going to do is say if value is remember
value is while we insert.
If that is less than the current no dot value.
So we'll start from the root note and say hey is the value that we are entering less than the current
node value.
If that's the case we know the rules.
So we're going to go left if it devalues less than the current note.
Now in here we want to check first of all if there is no current node got left is there an element already
to the left of the root node because if there isn't in that case we can just assign the current node
dot left to our you know that we want to enter because there's nothing there and we can just return
out of this loop and just return our this which is the binary search tree.
However if there is something to the left of our note let's say in this case 9.
In that case we'll say current note is going to equal current node dot left.
So we're going to update and shift over so that the current node is no longer 9 it's whatever is to
the left of 9 and that's going to keep us looping.
So we're going to keep looping keep looping keep looping until we hit a node that doesn't have a left
hand side so that we can place the current node for our node into its place.
But that's for the left side.
If the value is less than the current node if the value is greater or in this case equal to our current
node and we can decide here where we want to place values that are equal.
That's up to us and how we want to implement it will say that we'll go right if value is greater or
equal to current node.
In that case what we want to do the first check first which is if current NO.
Right.
There's nothing to it there's nothing next to it to the right of it in that case just like a bar against
a current.
No dot right equals the new node
and we're also going to return this because we want to stop looping
remember as soon as we have a point or two.
No that's when we want to exit out of this wild loop that's going to loop forever Otherwise we simply
say the current node is going to equal current.
No dot great.
And there you go.
Hopefully this works.
But before we test this out and see if we meet any minor mistakes.
I do want to warn you if you are just coding along I encourage you to pause the video and think through
line by line maybe even drawing things out maybe using visual go to see what we're doing because it's
really hard to keep this in your head.
Even myself I can code this from scratch.
It takes me a bit of time to think things through and see how we wanna structure the code so don't feel
frustrated if this is a bit overwhelming I encourage you to pause the video try to code along and understand
what's happening step by step.
All right.
Let's test this.
I have an insert of 9 here if I click this run that's working.
If I answer it for.
All right.
Looks like four got inserted.
What about six.
All right.
I'm just going to comment all this out and see if that works.
I'm going to click run.
All right.
Looks like we've logged out everything.
But I want to test make sure that everything is working as expected.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy and paste this remember without the quotes at the end because
I don't want to copy the string.
I want to copy the object and I'm going to again open my developer tools go to cons. clear my code and
then just copy and paste.
Hit enter.
And now we can test our tree and you scroll down here.
This is the tree that we want.
We have nine of the top to the left and to the right.
We have four and 20 look of that.
That's good.
And two when we go to the four we have left is one right is 6 awesome and one should have normal to
the right and left perfect.
Same with six.
Perfect.
And if we scroll down let's look at 20.
It should have not only should have 15 and 170 has this Shulgin we have 59 170.
And both of those are pointing to no.
Not bad not bad at all.
Wasn't too bad once you get a hang of it and code this on your own.
You'll see that it makes sense.
It's all just logic and something that we've learned when working with linked lists in the next video
we're going to try and tackle.
Look up if you weren't able to implement insert please try and do that now before we get to look up.
Otherwise try to implement.
Look up on your own and I'll see you in the solution video.
Bobby.